The goop List is our annual roundup of the world’s most exceptional experiences. As we round out the List’s first year, we celebrate the most vast and competitive category so far: restaurants.

This list honors plenty of the food world’s big dogs: molecular gastronomists, iconic sushi masters, the kinds of chefs that seem to win James Beard Awards and Michelin stars in their sleep. And there are plenty of tasting menus and prix fixe situations here. But it also highlights extraordinary neighborhood trattorias, window-service legends, local institutions, and the industry’s most promising young guns.

Here’s how it works: We start with Gwyneth’s must-haves, tap her friends (here, chefs and other food-world heavy-hitters) for their nominations, and select the best of the bunch. We run through the shortlist with Gwyneth. And we come to a tight edit—and yes, for restaurants 59 is tight—of truly extraordinary experiences around the globe.

The River Café
LONDON, ENGLAND
A London landmark since its opening in 1987 (and an even bigger one since its Michelin star was first announced ten years later), the River Café is at once fancy and low-key: You’ll get white tablecloths here, sure, but paper placemats, too. Go for roasted-peach bellinis, a pan-Italian wine list, and chef Ruth Rogers’s rustic Tuscan food—think hand-cut malfatti and Barolo-marinated veal shin. The dining room bumps right up against the kitchen; if you’re lucky, you’ll sit close enough to the iconic hot-pink oven to ogle at dinner as it comes out of the fire. In the summer, come for lunch and sit on the lush terrace.

(Side note: Chef Rogers hosts a great podcast, Ruthie’s Table 4, about food’s role in memory and culture.)

Le Cheval d’Or
PARIS, FRANCE
In bohemian Belleville just a few blocks from Parc des Buttes-Chaumont, there have been restaurants called Le Cheval d’Or at this exact location, with this exact red façade, for over 25 years. The latest might be the most exciting yet: Filipino-Australian chef Hanz Gueco and his team—all somebodies in the Paris food and wine scene—reopened the place as a high-end fusion spot. It’s fun and experimental. The menu changes often, but you might find handmade tortellini with mapo ragu, black-vinegar chicken wings, or Sichuan-oil mussels. Natural and biodynamic wines dominate the beverage list, but there are some really good sakes, too.

Shang Palace
PARIS, FRANCE
In the palatial Paris Shangri-La Hotel, Shang Palace reminds us of old-school Hong Kong private members clubs: warm and elegant, and full of antiques and gilded details. Chef Tony Xu’s menu is mostly straightforward and excellent Chinese food. At lunch, go for a nearly-endless spread of sculptural, jewel-toned dumplings. The bright red rice rolls and taro puffs are highlights. At dinner, get anything that comes out of the wok, and definitely the chef’s signature Canton duck. Lest you forget this is Paris, behold: sweet-and-sour foie gras.

Il Genovese
GENOVA, ITALY
It’s best to plan well in advance if you want to try real, hand-crushed Ligurian pesto at Il Genovese. Nobody wants to leave Genoa without eating here at least once, and the tiny dining room is always full. Inside, you’ll fill your table with fried zucchini flowers, ravioli stuffed with slow-cooked chuck, and yes, plate after plate of pesto gnocchi, trofie, and testaroli. Call for reservations, and if you don’t luck out on the phone, try arriving before opening—sometimes you can snag a table right away. Or the hostess might tip you off on when to circle back (usually after 9).

4 Charles Prime Rib
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
Nothing gimmicky here, just well-executed steakhouse classics in the West Village. 4 Charles is an old-fashioned cocktail, oysters-for-the-table kind of place by the guy responsible for Chicago’s steakhouse renaissance, restaurateur Brendan Sodikoff. Like its predecessors Au Cheval and Gilt Bar, 4 Charles is old-school, complete with wood-paneled walls and tufted-leather booths. Get the prime rib French dip, and you’ll be chasing that high forever.

Pujol
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
Pujol needs little introduction: It’s the epicenter of Mexico’s fine dining scene and home to chef Enrique Olvera’s mole madre, which has been aging for the last ten years and a signature of the tasting menu for just as long. Olvera focuses on native ingredients, like huitlacoche and ant roe, and his presentation always feels fresh. Nearly as famous as the mole is the nine-course taco omakase, which changes daily and always hits.

Franklin BBQ
AUSTIN, TEXAS
Ask any native Texan about can’t-miss barbecue joints, and they might start with their own local legends and whatever new pitmasters people are buzzing about right now. But few will neglect to mention James Beard Award–winner Aaron Franklin’s legendary Franklin BBQ in Austin. Since 2009, Franklin has drawn hours-long lines—people start gathering as early as dawn for 11 a.m. lunch—for slow-smoked brisket, tender pulled pork, and fatty, saucy ribs. It is that good. The open secret is to order in advance for pickup.

Found Oyster
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Physically, Found Oyster may be a tight East Hollywood boîte, but in spirit it’s entirely a New England–style seafood shack. Everyone’s there for the big platters of peel-and-eat prawns, togarashi-peppered crab cocktail, Sicilian crudo, and oysters shipped in from the general manager’s family farm on Cape Cod. Go for one of those, absolutely. If you still have room in front of you, get ponzu-dressed clams, an order of white anchovies, and Bub & Grandma’s bread. No reservations here, but let the friendly and chatty staff pour you a drink—mostly Californian, French, and Italian wines—while you hang out for seats at the bar.

Funke
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Chef Evan Funke is a legend in the LA pasta scene. First for the saucy, cheesy tonnarelli and salt-flaked sfincione at Felix; second for the negroni culture at Mother Wolf; and most recently for the newest addition to the chef’s growing Italian empire, his eponymous restaurant Funke. On the menu, you’ll find some of the greatest hits from Felix and Mother Wolf, plus dishes inspired by the chef’s travels through Bologna, like ultra-thin tagliatelle, chewy orecchiette, and a 50-dollar plate of pork-stuffed agnolotti. (Yes—totally worth it.) The dining room is a little kitsch, sure, but that’s part of the magic: If you’re lucky, you’ll land a spot near Evan Funke’s glassed-in “laboratory” and watch the master pull pasta by hand. People battle online for dining room reservations, which are released a week in advance.

Sushi Yamamoto
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Sushi Yamamoto, which opened last year in the old Urasawa space on Rodeo Drive, is one of the best omakase bars in LA’s (extremely impressive) sushi scene. Put your trust in rising-star chef Yusuke Yamamoto, who’s worked behind the counter at the Beverly Hills classic Matsuhisa and at Nobu Tokyo: He pulls in some of the world’s best seafood, like uni from Hokkaido, Oma tuna from Aomori, and Astrea caviar. Spring for the sommelier’s sake pairing.

Kisser
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE
Kisser chefs and owners (and married couple) Brian Lea and Leina Horii road-tested their Japanese comfort food at farmers markets and restaurant pop-ups—including a series at The Patterson House and one at Bastion—before opening as a brick-and-mortar last year. Their best stuff landed on the permanent menu, and everything here is good. But if you only have one meal here, go for the standout chicken katsu sandwich, out-of-this-world onigiri, and Japanese breakfast. Kisser is a hot ticket and a small space—only open for lunch, only four days a week, only for walk-ins. You’ll want to arrive before opening to avoid a longer wait.

Locust
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE
We love what chef Trevor Moran is doing at Locust. That said, his Asian-inspired menu is short and changes frequently enough that we can’t give you a useful preview. With one notable exception, which has been on the menu so long they might be a Locust signature: the DIY beef tartare handrolls, which come with panel-cartoon instructions. Bring someone you’d like to impress, and get one of everything. (Note that reservations are necessary and require a deposit, and the restaurant can only accommodate groups of four or fewer.)

Thai Diner
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
Thai Diner is totally its own: a classic American diner–slash–tiki bar, where you can get babka-and-Thai tea French toast, steak-and-egg lettuce wraps at brunch, bok choy chowder, and green-curry bucatini. A lot of it is unconventional, sure—but put your trust in chefs Ann Redding and Matt Danzer (New Yorkers still mourn the loss of their previous restaurant, Uncle Boons) and you’ll never be disappointed.

They take a handful of reservations, but they reserve most seats for walk-ins, so don’t be discouraged if you don’t see a time available online. Come with a small group, and if you run into a wait, hold tight.

Frank and Laurie’s
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND
Frank and Laurie’s is one of those excellent neighborhood spots that reminds us you don’t always have to chase down reservations or pony up a paycheck to have one of the best lunches of your life. Here, they serve simple, homey stuff—egg sandwiches, tomato salad, hashbrowns—all inspired by chef Eric Brown’s grandparents, who taught him the magic of a jammy egg.

Le Petit Vendôme
PARIS, FRANCE
Tasting menu this, Michelin-star that…if you want to really know Paris food culture, please consider: a jambon-beurre in the bakery window down the block, a street crêpe with powdered sugar, and platefuls of paté and raw-milk Camembert in a corner bistro. Lunch at Le Petit Vendôme is an education in casual Parisian classics, from foie gras and escargot to soupe à l’oignon and pan-fried tartare.

The Marshall Store
INVERNESS, CALIFORNIA
The Marshall Store’s oysters come from the owners’ famous family farm, Tomales Bay Oyster Co. At the farmstand, you can buy oysters to go, including sauces and knives, although you’re requested to bring your own bucket. Here at the restaurant, in a blue fishing cottage by the water, you can order them raw or grilled, Rockefeller or Kilpatrick—or smoked on crostini with a smear of Cowgirl Creamery fromage blanc. Plus chowder and sandwiches, bottled beer, and kettle chips by the bag.

L’As du Fallafel
PARIS, FRANCE
On Sunday, when most restaurants in Paris close shop, our heads go straight to the falafel shops in the Marais. L’As du Fallafel was the OG—it opened in 1979—and it inspired scores of imitators. You’ll notice Rue des Rosiers is packed with falafel spots. Don’t bother with the rest; this is the one.

Get in line for to-go orders. It moves fast, and you’d wait much longer for a table inside. Consider extras, like fries or mint lemonade, if you have the hands for them. But otherwise we’ll advise you to keep things simple: Ask for un fallafel, s’il vous plait, and they’ll hand you a fresh pita steaming with just-fried falafel, tender roasted eggplant, shredded cabbage, tomato, hummus, and tahini. It’s really good with spicy harissa sauce—when they ask if you want it épicé, say oui.

Da Enzo al 29
ROME, ITALY
Da Enzo is proudly devoted to traditional Roman tastes. That is, there’s lots of pasta on the menu, the fried artichokes are perfect, and nothing is too dressed up, fusion-ified, or contrived. It’s just a great lunch or dinner in a blissfully casual trattoria—think stiff plaid placemats, mismatched barstools, and a self-service fridge full of wine and cola. The wait can get pretty long—get there at least half an hour before opening if you can swing it. People know it’s the best in Trastevere.

Lunasia
ALHAMBRA, CALIFORNIA
During the weekend brunch rush, you can expect to wait an hour for dim sum at Lunasia—unless you band up with seven friends or more, in which case they’ll allow you an advance reservation. Whatever it takes; this is unmissable dim sum. Don’t go without getting the shrimp noodle rolls (zhaliang) and the savory Chinese donut (youtiao).

Osteria Cinghale Bianco
FLORENCE, ITALY
Across the river from the Uffizi Galleries, you can sit and feast on wild boar pappardelle, Florentine steak, and onion flan smothered in cream and black truffle. But somehow, this restaurant has built its (stellar) reputation on day-old bread. The panzanella is excellent, as is the bean-y, bread-y ribollita. They’re also known for great tiramisu; get one of those, definitely.

Mosca’s
WESTWEGO, LOUISIANA
This family-run institution was Bruce Paltrow’s favorite. Years later, it’s still the best Italian-meets-Creole meal one can ask for—well worth the 30-minute drive from New Orleans. Much like its white clapboard exterior, the two-room dining area is totally no-frills. The best thing on the menu is their garlicky, buttery oysters Mosca (fresh whole oysters with baked with breadcrumbs); order the angel hair pasta bordelaise and scoop the oysters on top.

The Grill
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
This Major Food Group restaurant, which occupies the legendary Four Seasons space in the Seagram building, is glitzy and fun and full of people in fancy suits. Here, you can get a mathematically perfect prime rib (sliced tableside), martinis poured from an impossible height (not a splash), and a rich, thick pasta sauce made from poultry marrow (which comes streaming from an antique duck press Mario Carbone hunted down in New Orleans). It’s dinner and a show, and it’s spectacular.

You’ll have to plan in advance if you’d like, say, a Friday night dinner at 7. But if you have a good reason to ball out on the company card, a weekday lunch reservation is never hard to land.

Stokehouse
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
An icon of the Melbourne fine dining scene right on St. Kilda beach, Stokebar is airy and laid back and looks directly over Port Phillip Bay. It is, at its core, a seafood place, and you’d be right to go for John Dory, rock lobster, and anything from the raw bar. But they do steak, lamb, and immaculately arranged vegetables, too. They also have a more-casual downstairs bar, which runs an impressive pasta operation.

A Casa do Porco
SÃO PAULO, BRAZIL
Janaína and Jefferson Rueda started A Casa do Porco with a mission to revive pork culture in Brazil. They raise the pigs. (Specifically Brazilian breeds you can’t find elsewhere, like Sorocaba, Plau, Canastra, Caruncho and Pereira.) They butcher in-house and use the entire animal. And they roast their signature San Ze pork on a grill that Jefferson designed himself. This might be the best pork you can get anywhere, and the Ruedas want everyone to be able to get it: It’s affordable at lunch and dinner, yes, but there’s also a takeout window serving roast pork sandwiches (as well as vegetarian and vegan options) for as little as 15 Brazilian real—less than three US dollars.

Tempura Endo
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
At Tempura Endo—a Kyoto great dating back to 1910, with this outpost in Beverly Hills—you get a bib for splatter as soon as you sit down to the eight-seat omakase bar. This is, after all, first and foremost about deep-fried food. But after a few first courses of something fresh and cooling, when the fried food comes (perhaps it’s an expertly prepared prawn, head off, legs on, dipped in boiling oil for just a second) the bib feels a little deceptive. Every course is delicately crisp, light, and juicy, and never overtly oily. Executive chef Satoshi Masuda is a master, and his work is a great show (and even better to eat).

Prime Seafood Palace
TORONTO, CANADA
Chef (and The Bear producer) Matty Matheson’s seafood-y steakhouse does Sicilian crudo, caviar bites, lobster spaghetti, and gorgeous (and very expensive) steaks. It is, in essence, classic surf-and-turf with ingredients from Matheson’s idyllic farm in Fort Erie. The food is fabulous, but the space is half the reason to go: The Scandinavian-style dining room is decked out in Canadian maple, with a wood-burning stove and big, slatted windows that somehow maximize both natural light and privacy.



Sushi Meino
TOKYO, JAPAN
Chef Mei Kogo’s sushi mastery all comes down to her ingredient knowledge and point of view: She picks the most delicate-tasting fish from the best producers, washes and marinates it just so—even gets her wasabi from one very particular terroir. She’ll explain it all. Your job is to figure out how to get a spot at her six-seat sushi counter, which is members-only.

Geranium
COPENHAGEN, DENMARK
On the eighth floor of the Copenhagen soccer stadium, overlooking the Common Gardens, Geranium performs Nordic precision at its most perfect. This is a Copenhagen classic, and one adorned with three Michelin stars. The dining room is light and airy and looks out over the park. Without sacrificing even a smidge of the restaurant’s careful choreography, the staff is friendly and energetic. And just look at the food: 20 plant-focused works of art—with some fish here and there; chef and co-owner Rasmus Kofoed quit meat a few years ago—that really show off what vegetables have to offer.

Contramar
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
Contramar is always packed, because it’s a Roma Norte classic—and as much of a tourist must-try as it is a place for chic locals to see and be seen. Chef Gabriela Cámara is especially famous for her tuna tostada and pescado a la talla: whole snapper, cleaved down the middle and cooked over an open flame, and served with fresh corn tortillas, refried beans, and cheese from the Chiapas highlands. It’s a lunch thing. Make an afternoon reservation, stay for hours chatting over ceviche and mezcal drinks, finish off with fig tarts, and plan to siesta later.

The Chairman
HONG KONG, CHINA
Polymath owner Danny Yip and head chef Kwok Keung Tung spend months developing new cooking methods for The Chairman. Which means two things: Only a few new dishes make it to the menu every year, and they’re worth the wait. Yip applies techniques from worldwide cultures to traditional Cantonese food, which leads to creations like sun-cured pigeon and Sichuan peppercorn-stewed oxtail. It’s ostensibly fancy, but Yip wants the place to feel like home; ingredients are sourced from local-legend markets and shops, and dishes are served to share. Still, for reservations, you’ll have to plan several months in advance and strike as soon as seats are up.

Nixta Taqueria
AUSTIN, TEXAS
Okay, the tacos here are a 10 out of 10—we’ll start there. But we want you to know that they’re this good because of the tortillas, which are made with heirloom corn sourced from San Martín Tilcajete and nixtamalized here. James Beard Award–winning chef Edgar Rico staged under Enrique Olvera at Pujol and learned from abuelitas in Oaxaca, and his work honors food traditions that date back to the Aztecs. With modern modifications, of course: There are duck confit carnitas, beet tartare tostadas, smokey squash flautas, salsa flights. And if you taste Persian spices, that’s the influence of co-owner Sara Mardanbigi (she and Rico are married). The vibe is casual, and most of the time you order at the counter and park at a picnic table outside. Unless you’re doing the masa omakase—still relaxed, but fancy enough for a special occasion.

Restaurant La Llotja
TARRAGONA, SPAIN
At La Llotja, just off the harbor of a small fishing village outside of Tarragona, chef Marc Miró creates brilliance with the day’s catch. On the tasting menu, which changes often, you might see sautéed baby squid with candied onions, tuna belly carpaccio with tomato confit, and marinated sardines in raspberry vinaigrette. There’s an à la carte menu, too, where you can count on clams with cava and red-shrimp risotto. Miró’s bluefin tuna is phenomenal. The wine list focuses on Catalonian viticulture; you’ll spot a lot of Priorat, Montsant, and Terra Alta wines. The terrace is particularly lovely—breezy and relaxed.

Frantzén
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN
At chef Björn Frantzén’s eponymous restaurant, every bite is flawless, from the pillowy macaron canapés you get first-thing, to the milk bread that comes to croissant-y peaks, to whatever fabulous surprise they have in store for the main…all the way through the pretty plate of madeleines and petit fours at dessert. People with really good taste say it’s one of their favorite restaurants ever. If you can’t get the dinner reservation you’re probably after, do lunch—it’s the same.

Tomita
CHIBA, JAPAN
At the highest-regarded ramen shop in Japan, the main draw is tsukesoba, ramen master Tomita-san’s fresh, bouncy dipping noodles. They come with thick tonkotsu broth made with pork bones, dried sardines, yuzu, and togarashi (which has a kick), as well as your pick of toppings, like pork chashu and perfectly runny egg. This is the original location, about an hour outside of Tokyo. There’s something to coming all the way out of the city for it—you’ll join ramen fanatics lining up at its doors in the early morning, waiting for timed tickets—but if you can’t carve out the time, there are a few locations in Tokyo’s tourist districts, too.

Asador Etxebarri
AXPE, SPAIN
It’s a small journey out to Asador Etxebarri—45 minutes from Bilbao (or an hour-fifteen from San Sebastián) to the Basque village of Axpe, which sits below a range of steep limestone mountains. But most people travel much further to eat here. It’s widely known as one of the best restaurants in the world, and people plan whole trips around this. Chef Victor Arguinzoniz is a genius at his grill (which he designed himself), and the tasting menu is between 12 and 14 courses of wood-fire and smoke. It may include: house-made chorizo and buffalo mozzarella, Catalan red prawns, Txuleton steak, and “caviar” made from rare and delicate teardrop peas—all touched by the barbecue. Don’t come all this way and do the à la carte; it’s fabulous, sure, but not the point.

Kjolle
LIMA, PERU
Pía León was previously head chef at her husband’s restaurant, Central, which is regularly ranked the best restaurant in South America and can take four months to get into. Here, at the first restaurant of her own, León keeps her focus on Peruvian ingredients but gives herself more room to play. (While Central organizes its 18 courses by ecosystem, Kjolle can mix and match.)

What appears on your plate here—colorful tuber trios, coconutty river shrimp, several varietals of cacao—is a feat, but when you learn what’s behind the scenes, the whole thing becomes even cooler: León and her multidisciplinary team research how to use every part of every plant to optimize flavor and minimize environmental impact. You learn a lot about Peruvian ecology over the course of dinner. If that scratches an itch, you can book a private tour of the Theobroma lab that produces chocolate for León’s restaurants.

Falansai
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK
Falansai is the kind of place that does double duty as an effortlessly cool date spot and go-to takeout joint. Chef Eric Tran, who trained at Blue Hill at Stone Barns under Dan Barber, is wholly himself here. It’s Vietnamese-Mexican fusion, reflecting his own heritage. And every bit of it is excellent: Tran turns out his father’s fried rice and egg rolls, honey-glazed pork shoulder, Prince Edward Island mussels swimming in soupy red curry, and sticky, tender duck neck. The five-spice lamb neck, which comes with tortillas and salsas, is massive and made to share; get it when you’re here with a few friends.

Monteverde
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
At chef Sarah Grueneberg’s bustling Monteverde in West Loop, bar seating is the hot ticket. That’s where you can watch the chefs whip out sheets of fresh pasta dough, slice them into ribbons, and hang them to dry. (There’s a vintage mirror mounted on the ceiling so you can get a bird’s eye view.) People are obsessed with the burrata and prosciutto, which comes with fluffy flatbread called tigelle, as well as with the soppressata meatballs and the braised-beef ravioli. And please, try the cacio e pepe, which is made with whey instead of water. You’ll wonder why it isn’t always done this way.

Kasama
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Co-chefs (and married couple) Tim Flores and Genie Kwon worked together at two-Michelin-star Oriole, and with Kasama, they meant to open the kind of neighborhood bakery people would drop into for a croissant and a coffee. And Kasama is that, yes. At brunch, they serve relatively inexpensive breakfast sandwiches, adobo, and baked goods. (While you wait in line, you’ll notice everyone’s talking about their signature Basque cake, which has ube and huckleberry filling.) But at night, Kasama serves a 13-course tasting menu rooted in Filipino flavors. It is in no sense traditional; you can expect multi-cultural twists on lumpia, pancit, kinilaw, bistek, nilaga, and halo-halo. Kasama has now won a James Beard Award, as well as a Michelin star of its own.

March
HOUSTON, TEXAS
March closes twice a year. That’s when chef Felipe Riccio and his team move their sole focus to research: Every “season” they change focus to a new region of the Mediterranean, looking for the places where ecosystems and cultures overlap. Right now, they’re on their eighth, the Republic of Genoa, which fell to Napoleon in 1797—it’s that specific. They do beautiful work, and a beautiful job explaining it. What you eat here will depend entirely on when you go, but you can count on six or nine courses of something delicate and pretty and just as delicious. If you’re not in for the whole shebang this season, you can book the lounge (where you typically start with gin martinis and snacks before dinner and go for dessert after) on its own and just get a taste.

Washing Potato
LAS VEGAS, NEVADA
Some of the best dim sum in the U.S. can be found in low-frills dining rooms with rolling carts and checklist menus. And some of it can be found at Alan Yau’s Washing Potato in full Las Vegas glitz. Expect chrome hardware, white leather, red light, and glossy everything. And: classic dim sum baskets carrying scallop shu mai, translucent chiu chow dumplings, and perfect pork buns. (And so many more Hong Kong classics, from crispy pork to choy sum in really good oyster sauce.) It’s in the new Fontainebleau hotel, along with Evan Funke’s Mother Wolf and a Contramar cantina from Gabriela Cámara, coming soon.

Night + Market
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
We’ve been fans of Chef Kris Yenbamroong’s Night+Market forever. It’s a certified party restaurant when you want it to be—good before a show at the Roxy or for celebrations that might get a little rowdy. Or sure, intimate dinners too, as long as you’re going for a spirited vibe. What’s always true is that the street food–style northern Thai rocks. It’s boldly flavorful, often boldly spicy, and best coupled with several rounds of beer or bottles of natural wine off their extensive list.



Spoon & Stable
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA
Gavin Kaysen had a long run as chef de cuisine at NYC’s Café Boulud before moving home to open Spoon & Stable in a hundred-year-old horse stable. Ten years later—the anniversary’s this month—it’s widely known as the best restaurant in Minneapolis. Expect a super-friendly staff (this is the Midwest—what did you expect?) and the kind of upscale comfort food you’d want to eat when the city is under four feet of snow. Like: brown-butter ravioli made with heritage grain, creamed spinach with fried cheese curds, and pot roast based on Kaysen’s grandmother’s recipe. The place is dimly-lit, deeply cozy, and a little bit sexy—great for date night.

Atoboy
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
Chef Junghyun Park’s four-course prix fixe changes regularly, but you may find: panko-crusted blowfish tails drizzled with ginger gribiche. Icelandic cod in a pool of gochujang-lobster curry. Brothy oxtail with chimichurri and muchim. Korean banchan is the foundation of every dish here, and it’s beyond good. The vibe is completely casual, with upbeat music and friendly servers. (That’s the excellent work of general manager Ellia Park.) It’s great for a low-key catch-up with friends who’ll appreciate excellent fried chicken and a soju sour. If you’re seeking something similar but swankier, check out Atomix, the Park couple’s tasting-menu spot just down the street.

Wana Yook
BANGKOK, THAILAND
Wana Yook is hardly a hidden gem at this point, although you’ll still hear people talking about it that way. (Even after it won its first Michelin star last year.) Chef Chalee Kader is a fine-dining visionary, making contemporary Thai that’s inspired by ran khao kaeng—rice and curry stalls—and heritage rice from across the country. Everything comes out as a pristine little sculpture: Catfish is crystallized and topped with green mango; a chunk of squid, sliced into thin noodles, balances on top of mangosteen segments; and chicken murtabak comes inside a glassy, bite-sized tartlet.

Penny and Claud
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
Okay, this one’s really two restaurants, run by the same owners at the same address. Upstairs, Penny is a raw bar that takes “bar” literally; it’s all bar and counter seating, with most spots reserved for walk-ins. They serve great oysters and crudo, garlicky periwinkles, caviar service, and house-made sesame brioche, with good wine to wash everything down. Downstairs, on the subterranean level, Claud serves excellent French-inflected food like cod croquettes, béarnaise beets, and paté-packed pasta. Get whatever seasonal-produce mille-feuille is on the menu; you’ll dream about the puff pastry for the rest of forever.

Raf’s
MANHATTAN, NEW YORK
From the dining room at Raf’s, you can watch almost everything on the menu emerge from the vintage bread oven in the kitchen’s back wall: escargot, brick-oven chicken, leeks vinaigrette, and other French-Italian magic. Order more than you have room for, let it load up on your teeny table, and don’t skip dessert from pastry chef Camari Mick. Breakfast is just as excellent—go for full-on eggs-in-purgatory action or keep it easy with croissants and coffee to go.

Laser Wolf
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
At Laser Wolf, gigantic trays come crowded with Levantine salads and sauces, from Yemenite pickles to ajvar and p’kaila. Which could easily stand on their own, for the record. But in this case, they’re a prelude and accompaniment to grilled skewers of meat (or vegetables, if you prefer) roasted over a charcoal grill. The spritzy cocktails are perfection—there’s one with za’atar-turmeric vodka, and another with lemon, saffron, and bourbon—as is the brown sugar soft-serve.

Kann
PORTLAND, OREGON
Chef Gregory Gourdet is a three-time James Beard Award winner, a former Jean-Georges chef de cuisine, and an all-star of the Portland food scene—and his restaurant Kann has been given “best new restaurant” awards by…everybody. Here, Gourdet serves live-fire Haitian food including jerk cauliflower, poul ak nwa (Haitian cashew chicken), and snapper in pineapple-tamarind-pepper sauce. The entire menu is gluten- and dairy-free. (It’s part of Gourdet’s mission of inclusivity and sustainability.) And there’s an underground sister bar; go for street food–style bar bites and drinks with pan-Caribbean influences, from doubles (Trinidad flatbread with curried chickpeas) to guava-infused vodka cocktails.

Le Grottelle
CAPRI, ITALY
Start your walk to Le Grottelle—and yes, you must walk; the restaurant is only accessible by trails and stairs—at the Capri Piazetta. From there, it’s 20 or 30 minutes to the edge of the island. When it gets steep, that’s how you know you’re close. This is the kind of place you want to linger for the rest of your life: Sip aperitifs on the covered patio or terraces carved out of the cliffs and absorb as much as you can of the Arco Naturale, Punta Campanella, and the Amalfi coast in the distance. It would be all about the views if it weren’t for the excellent food—pizza, ravioli, and torta caprese—and the twinkle lights and candles after sunset, which might make it just as romantic at night as it is in the daylight.

Sag Harbor Tavern
SAG HARBOR, NEW YORK
If you’ve been to Sag Harbor Tavern’s Brooklyn sister restaurants, Hometown Bar-B-Que and Red Hook Tavern, you know owner and chef Billy Durney does magic with a cheeseburger, a thick slab of bacon, and ridge-cut French fries. Come here for lunch or dinner, and you’ll see plenty of those burgers walking by—along with fragrant plates of mussels, rock shrimp pasta, branzino, strip steak, and brick chicken.

San Ho Won
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
Chef Corey Lee, whose flagship restaurant Benu has three Michelin stars, and Jeong-In Hwang, who trained there under him, opened San Ho Won to feel warm and familiar, but with all the care and attention to detail of fine dining. On the surface it’s a Korean barbecue spot, and aptly all about the grill: beef tongue, bulgogi, and tender galbi, all roasted over lychee-wood charcoal made just for the restaurant. But beyond that, you’ll find inventive twists on Korean classics. Fill up your table with green-onion pancakes with fat slabs of yam, riblet and tteokbokki stew, four kinds of kimchi, and scoopable egg soufflé with rock seaweed sauce.

Reservations open 29 days in advance, and you’ll have to plan carefully if you want a specific seating. Otherwise, take the first available option and sit tight—it’s well worth waiting for.

Che Fico
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
If anyone’s mastered the art of malty, bubbly sourdough pizza, it’s David Nayfeld, who’s a household name in San Francisco for the magic he makes at Che Fico. The pizza deserves its stellar reputation, and you’d be right to start there. (If you’re open to fruit on pizza, the pineapple is sliced so thin it almost disappears. It’s so good.) From there, load your table with handmade tagliatelle in glossy ragu, tender lamb loin, and fried, breaded balls of risotto.

You can snatch primetime dinner reservations for two with a week’s notice. Or let us make the case for Saturday or Sunday brunch: San Marzano Bloody Marys, Sightglass coffee, and the same famously good pizza, but with a fried egg on it. Then scoot around the corner to Alamo Square Park, where you can pass an afternoon lying out in front of its famous Painted Ladies.

Tomo
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
Tomo’s in a former erotic video shop. It serves Japanese-American food and excellent wine. (The list is 26 pages long; you should check out the cellar.) And it’s hip and fun and everything we want in a spirited night out. Order a bottle and one of everything on the à la carte menu, and toast to the genius of chef Brady Ishiwata Williams, who previously cooked at Brooklyn’s Roberta’s and Blanca and Seattle’s Canlis. This is his first restaurant, and thank god it’s here.

Tempura Motoyoshi
TOKYO, JAPAN
Chef Kazuhito Motoyoshi might say there’s no secret to tempura, only the intuition to know whether you have the batter right. The truth is that there are a few secrets. One is liquid nitrogen, another is that there are multiple kinds of water, and somewhere in the process you’ll notice three densities of batter in one bowl. There’s a lot involved. But he’s right: Only an insane level of experience can get you there. Come, drink sake and shochu, and trust that if Motoyoshi’s giving it to you, it’s incredible. (He has two Michelin stars for a reason.)

One note: Tempura Motoyoshi doesn’t take reservations online or by phone; you’ll have to ask your hotel concierge to pull some strings.


Blue Hill at Stone Barns
TARRYTOWN, NEW YORK
Ever since it opened on the Rockefeller estate in 2004, Blue Hill at Stone Barns has represented chef Dan Barber’s vision not just for fine dining, but for a better-tasting, more-resilient food system. You pass a flock of chickens on the way in. The stone barns that house the restaurant once housed the cows. Almost everything that hits your plate is grown right here and was probably harvested today, from the breakfast radishes (best of your life) to the beef, which comes from the farm’s retired dairy cows. (What’s impossible to raise here—fish, mostly, and the grain for the bread—is carefully sourced for both quality and lower environmental impact.) It inspires the idea, if you weren’t already thinking about it, that every meal—even a supremely special one like dinner here—is part of a much bigger picture. Couple that with crisp white linens, crystal, and friendly and attentive service, and this is an experience to go way out of your way for.

Albi
WASHINGTON, D.C.
Sure, you could crowd your table with a billion plates of coal-roasted mushroom hummus, smokey baba ganoush, big fat octopus legs, and puffy, blistered pita. But please, let the chef riff off the bounty he picked up at the farmers market this morning; the tasting menu here is insane. If you have time to burn before or after dinner, drop by the separate lounge, Saha, next door. They do exclusively cocktails, digestifs, and dessert, with an emphasis on soft serve drizzled in stuff like Palestinian olive oil and pomegranate molasses.

The Grey
SAVANNAH, GEORGIA
The Grey occupies an old 1930s Greyhound bus station, and it’s totally cool. Owners John Morisano and chef Mashama Bailey restored the place a few years back, merging the originally segregated waiting spaces into a grand, art-deco dining room. It’s one of the best vibes in Savannah’s very good dining scene. And the Southern food (with global twists) is excellent. Bailey trained in New York and France, and her influences show at dinner’s super-seasonal menus and mostly-European wines list. Come Sunday mornings for Southern brunch classics: fried chicken and hoe cakes, biscuits and gravy with poached eggs, crab beignets and mascarpone, and duck pastrami.

Gaia
DUBAI, UAE
In Gate Village, between art galleries, jewelers, and other fine-dining restaurants (Zuma is here, as is La Petite Maison), Gaia is swish and comfortable and serves incredible Grecian food. Sit on the patio if you can; it’s dripping in wisteria and climbing bougainvillea. Start with carpaccio, baked feta, and something with tsipouro. (That’s unaged Greek brandy. Gaia is one of the only non-hotel restaurants in Dubai that serves alcohol, and their cocktails are really good.) And then go for whatever fish is out on the ice market, prepared however you like it—in thin raw slices, maybe, or grilled with lemon, or baked a la spetsiota. If you’re in for after-dinner dancing, there’s a secret nightclub downstairs; call ahead, then go behind the gift shop and find the hidden door.